Elon Musk Demos Futuristic Car-Transporting Sled
Instead of being stuck in traffic for hours on the I-5 in Los Angeles, inventor and billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk wants everyone to hop in their car and then zoom on a sled at heart-pounding speed to their destination.
Musk posted a demo of one of these car-carrying electric sleds on his Instagram page.
The idea is that these sleds would race through a network of subterranean tunnels at about 125 mph (200 km/h) before automatically switching from one tunnel to the next. 
"Would mean Santa Monica to Westwood in 5 minutes," Musk posted with the picture.
The current travel time from Santa Monica to Westwood is about 20 minutes.
The sleds are part of his concept of building tunnels underneath Los Angeles to more rapidly transport people around the city, which he detailed in a recent TED talk.
The project will be called the Boring Company ? after the boring process used to create the tunnels.
This isn't the only futuristic transit concept Musk has dreamed up. Musk is of course the mastermind behind the Tesla electric car.
He's also proposed a superfast hyperloop, which would transport people through a giant tunnel from Los Angeles to San Francisco on a cushion of air.
Prototypes of the hyperloop are currently being tested on a full-scale track in the desert in Nevada.
////////COMMENTS///////
1. Douglas Lowing
This shocking new invention is already in use. I call it a "train". The money propsed by Elon could create more of these, with people traveling in "cars". The tunnels would be part of a "subway". I just made up those terms. Now could I have 4 billion to create this?

2.Matthew Jacobs
I hope they have a barf bag at each seat

3.Virgil Cottongim 
@ 120 MPH?? Hell, that is no high speed, I used to do that every day on the freeways in Chicago... Anyway, as soon as these tunnels are built, we will have traffic congestion 'under ground' and WTF happens in a crash or breakdown? How do they extract the hundred cars in that tunnel? OK, for the elite, this may work, pay $1,000 bucks for the trip from Los Angeles to San Francisco, that would eliminate the average driver..., maybe that would work.... (?) There was a BIG push awhile back to get people to car pool, parking lots were set up all around to meet, park & ride... It didn't work... Why? We have, or had, a love affair with our cars, they are 'personal,' boys impress girls with their 'ride..' General Motors helped create the affair with their 1950/60's commercial: "See The USA In Your Chvroilet..." Inconvienience causes people to change their behavior. States could cease ALL new construction of roads, let the traffic pile up to where it took 4 hours to make the 20 minute run from Los Ageles to San Francisco, then watch people begin to car pool BIG time!!
This, from: "The Politically Incorrect Mouth.."

4.I like Musk's innovation but how about just building a low tech subway system in LA that works?